Exercise 10.4 of Lab 8
CS-344, Professor Vander Linden, Calvin University
Answers by Nathan Meyer (tnm6)

a.  Exercise 1:
  i.    What’s the size/shape of the cats/dogs datasets?
    Both datasets are of size 1500 (1000 for training, 500 for validation), and
  both are of shape (150, 150, 3) (three dimensions), accounting for height and
  width in pixels, and RGB values for each pixel.
  ii.   How does the first CNN compare with the one we did in class?
    The class example had 3 layers of convolution and max pooling, as does this
  example. The shape is three-dimensional, but (150, 150, 3) vs (28, 28, 1), to
  account for both an increase in pixel density and the complexity of each pixel
  (purely luminosity vs. RGB).
    The convolutional filters also differ. For the class example, one layer of
  32, 3x3 filters, and two layers of 64, 3x3 filters. This example uses one
  layer of 16 filters, then 32, then 64, all 3x3. Both use max pooling layers of
  2x2 windows.
    For the "flattening" layers, our class example had a hidden layer of 64
  densely connected nodes (relu), then an output layer of 10 densely connected
  nodes (softmax). This example opts for a densely connected layer of 512 nodes
  (also relu) and an output layer of 1 node (sigmoid). This change to sigmoid is
  due to the fact that it is a binary classification problem as opposed to a
  categorical one.
  iii.  Can you see any interesting patterns in the intermediate
        representations?
    The representations seem to cluster by "channel." Certain patterns are in a
  negative-esque style, others a stencil-like appearance, and others like a red,
  green, or blue filter has been applied to the images (different luminosities).
    As they progress down the layers, the clusters become smaller and smaller,
  until, by the time they're processed by max pooling for the second time, the
  abstractions appear relatively normalized. They also seem to have an effect of
  increasing contrast initially, until they are literally flattened out in range
  of color by the second max pooling layer.